for 1998 and for me it is a great honor to be in the office of John Lindsay in Houston and to be chatting with him about his recollections of student days at Texas A&M.
Now we'll stop and see that the machine is working.
Begin if you would please by telling me why did you go to A&M?
What led you there instead of somewhere else or maybe nowhere else?
I think it was a variety of reasons.
And I really don't know in what order they were.
But one of the reasons was that at least two people that I knew, Conrad Baring, the class of 43, was already there.
and Fort Albritton, who was in the class of 43, who was already there, had talked to me about coming to A&M.
And their parents were friends of my parents.
And I know that their parents got with my parents a couple of times beforehand and were talking to them about Texas A&M.
I know that
I was very interested in football also.
And if you recall the year before, Texas A&M had been national champions and everyone was toasting.
Interesting to note that on New Year's Eve of 1939,
When the Aggies were playing in the Sugar Bowl for the national championship, I was at a house party down at the bay near Houston with the farmer Barbara Golding, who later became Mrs. John Kimbrough.
I'm not sure she knew him at that time.
But I've always remembered that later after they got married that we were there to spend the night and didn't sleep much that night.
But the next day I do remember listening on the radio to the Aggies playing Tulane for the national championship.
But a variety of things like that.
Some of my
Good friends, Ben Lenny, who became my roommate, was coming to A&M, I knew, and several others that I knew in school.
And I had no idea what I wanted to do, what I wanted to take or anything, but those were my recollections.
Did you go up to visit before you decided to enroll?
I didn't.
Just went.
Alright, now describe if you can remember, describe the trip when you take whatever paraphernalia you had.
How did you get from Houston on that trip up there?
My mother took me up.
In a car?
In a car.
And describe the baggage that you took with you.
You know, I don't remember much about that.
Was it a suitcase or plenty suitcases?
It was several and there was a lamp.
I had to take a lamp.
We were told what we needed to bring.
Each of us had a lamp and we didn't have a TV to worry about.
About how much clothing?
Very little clothing because it was all going to be in uniform and there was no time for us to wear.
civilian clothing.
As I recall, while at A&M, I don't think I ever wore anything other than a uniform, other than when I wore shorts to go out and play tennis or something like that.
From your house on the west side of Houston to the A&M campus, by your student, was about what length of time
In driving time?
Seemed like about two and a half hours.
About two and a half.
Let's see.
Describe the campus during your student days.
Of course, that two and a half hours was if you had a car and were in control of who was driving it.
But that isn't the way I got to end that most of the time.
I hitchhiked.
Tell me about Aggie.
I've heard about Aggie Hitchhiking.
Tell me more about it.
How's that done?
That was the only way
From that first day, my mother took me up there.
But from then on, I hitchhiked.
And we had a place out on Shepherd in Washington Avenue in Houston.
It was a wine garden store on the corner.
Anyone, an Aggie that wanted to go back to College Station came there anytime Sunday afternoon, late Sunday afternoon, anytime in the night.
It was an automatic corner.
Most people in Houston knew that the Aggies were there and that it was okay to pick them up.
And most cars that were going out on the road picked up Aggies.
What did you have on when you were hitchhiking?
My uniform.
Did you put your thumb up?
Oh, yes.
Did you hold a sign?
No, didn't have to put a sign up.
We had our bags there in order.
You'd get up there and you'd put your bag at the end of the line.
And then whoever was first would stand up and put the thumb out.
The cars would stop and pick up and say, I'll take one or I'll take two or I'll take three.
Some of them took four.
Of course, we loved those.
It took a lot.
Now, class rank.
Academic status had nothing to do with it.
You stood in line, but whenever you got there, you were the next in line.
Alright, coming from College Station to Houston, where was the place though?
At the main gate, at the front gate.
What did you all call it then?
East gate?
No.
You didn't call it East gate?
No, we just called it the Houston Highway gate.
Okay, but it was the east side of campus?
Right.
In front of what is now the Jack Williams Administration Building.
Let's see, describe the campus.
Physically.
What buildings were there?
What was it?
Let's see what I was going to say about that hitchhiking.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Were there any incidents that you remember?
No, that was the interesting thing about it, the hitchhiking.
I can't remember any time where
I was really nervous about anyone that picked me up.
There were some, what we thought, crazy people, of course.
I mean, any college student would think that sometimes about older people, I think.
And some people would get off on subjects about themselves and things, you know, we would be bored with that.
But we tried to be
because we knew that we were gonna be doing this again and we were always put on guard to, that we were to be on our best behavior at all times because this is the way Aggies got around the state.
And later, there was a time when I would hitchhike to Austin on Wednesday afternoons.
A friend of mine, Sid Smith and I,
We'd go over there and sometimes, not have a date, just go over there and go by and see some of the girls we knew that were in school there.
All right, to go to Austin, where was the pickup place near the campus?
You know, I forgot.
Isn't that funny?
And generally were- But we could, there was a place everywhere.
Every place had, I don't remember where it was in Dallas either, or Fort Worth.
Normally, did you have a bag or a suitcase with an A&M symbol on it?
No, not necessarily.
So it was the uniform?
We had the uniform on, and everybody knew what that uniform was, and we always wore a uniform.
When I went to Austin, I'd wear the uniform.
In that era, did you hear about other institutions doing the same kind of thing?
I've never heard of... No.
To me, this is a comparatively unique practice.
No, but I know University of Texas people hitchhiked too, but they didn't have a uniform.
But they had places, I suppose,
like this, I had run into people that I knew at the University of Texas at Hempstead.
You know, I got a ride to Hempstead sometimes.
That was kind of a mistake to take a ride other than... Like nonstop?
Yeah, because sometimes you get caught.
There's not as much traffic.
People that would pick you up would already have a car full from behind you.
So I've been in Madisonville, coming back from Dallas,
until very late in the morning, and finally had to take a truck, loaded a pipe, and we rode on the back of this truck, cold, must have been 30 degrees.
We just about froze from Madisonville to college today, and the coldest I've ever been in my whole life.
But it was two or three o'clock in the morning, and there just weren't any cars out there, and we were ready to get home.
coming from a weekend in Dallas.
Okay, describe the campus during your days there.
Well, of course, there was no Memorial Student Center.
And we didn't have time to go to the Memorial Student Center either.
Anyway, as freshmen, we were busy, very busy.
Where'd you live?
I lived in number four.
Which was?
Which is in the core area now.
It's the second... Describe those buildings.
They were called the Newd Arms and they were built in, I think, the year before I got there.
I came in 1940 and they were built in 1939, I believe.
And they were nice, very nice, very clean, very easy to take care of.
And I lived on the fourth floor and it didn't bother me to be, I can't remember being sorry that I wasn't on the first floor.
I'd just seem to go up four flights of stairs, just go up, you know, not go up many flights of stairs at all.
I would hate that now, of course, but it didn't seem to bother me.
Talk about dorm life, some of the events.
Well, there was a lot of hazy going on when I was in school.
It was not a fun thing.
Describe that hazy.
Well, after dinner, every night, of course, we went to school during the day.
We couldn't lock our doors.
We had to keep the doors open.
so that the upperclassmen could come and see, get us at any time.
We were open game to run errands or just to general harassment.
Every night after dinner, we'd all meet and the sophomores would give us hell about the day.
He'd just generally give us a bad time.
We'd beat our ass.
With what?
With boards.
Of what sizes?
Baseball bat.
Playing down, you know.
I mean, you know, good healthy swings.
Was there supposedly a reason for the swats?
No, just because we were freshmen and they felt like getting exercise.
Normally a person got hit how many strokes?
Three.
And now your outfit was...
Did it have a nickname?
Was there any outfit that supposedly was the best academically or the worst?
Were there some that were?
I'm sure there were, but I didn't know about it.
The thing that I remember most
About my time after my freshman year was over, my junior year, I was the intramural manager of the outfit.
And it was every outfit had an intramural team and they played all sports.
And of course some sports everybody wanted to play and other sports they didn't want to play.
important sport was water polo.
Nobody wanted to do water polo, so the upperclassmen just, you know, didn't do that.
Juniors and seniors did not play water polo.
So it was a sophomore sport.
No fish did this.
I mean, this is upperclassmen.
I remember that one night we had a water polo match, and my outfit had won the intramural flag the year before, and we were in line to win it again, and I wanted to win it again.
And there was a big event going on at Town Hall that night, and the sophomores wanted to go to this event.
And I said, no way, we've got to play water polo tonight.
I'm going to the event, but you're going to go and say, what, pull up?
Well, it was just, you know, no question about it.
So I went comfortably to the event and later found out we forfeited.
The sophomores went to it also.
Well, that's about as bad a thing in those days in my life.
That was about as bad a thing as you could do.
It wasn't anything worse.
Did anything happen to those sophomores?
Oh, yes, that did.
Can you describe that?
Yes, I can.
I can describe it in great detail.
And it is very vivid in my memory because of the consequences that almost happened.
I brought them all in.
I got out my board and I whipped every one of them.
Very, very, very strongly.
I may have gone more than three on each one.
This was on a probably a Thursday or could have been a Friday night, I believe.
No, no, it was a Thursday night, so this is Friday when this happened, late Friday afternoon.
Well, it makes a lot of noise, you know, when you're looking at somebody's foot.
And I'm sure other people in the dorm knew what was going on.
And I don't know whether our sophomores would dare tell anybody.
But they were very serious, and they were very sorry about it.
And they realized what they had done, and that this was what they knew was going to happen.
So it happened, and I didn't think anything more.
It was over, and we went on about our business.
And Saturday morning, I was in my room, and I looked, and I could see a long ways down the street.
I saw Captain Sale, who was my attack officer, Gloria Sale's husband, Lieutenant Sale was at the time.
And this was before he married, but he was a brand new attack officer.
I've forgotten what class chick was, the 38 I believe.
And he was walking our way.
And I got that cold chill came over and I said, surely he doesn't know.
He wouldn't be coming this way.
And sure enough, he kept heading this way.
So I rushed down the hall, I got a couple of sophomores asked them get in the shower, take off your clothes and get in that shower and turn on that water so hot.
I want to see nothing but steam coming under that door.
I don't want anybody when they come in there to see any sophomore.
You'd think that's a crazy thing to do, but that's what we do, what we did.
And so all the sophomores got a bunch of them.
They all jumped in the shower.
And sure enough, it turned it on hot.
And the steam was coming out of the window.
And I watched Captain Sell, and he talked to a few people along the way, but sure enough, he came in the door and came right up to my room.
And he said, good morning, how are you?
And I said, I'm fine.
He said, I heard a shower going down there.
And I said, oh, really?
And he said, yeah, it sounds like a bunch of people taking a shower.
And I said, well, that's Saturday morning.
I guess they're going out today.
He said, sure, it's hot.
The steam was coming out from under there.
He said, you haven't seen it?
And I said, no, sir, I haven't seen it.
He said, well, come like this.
I don't know, a lot of steam's come in.
In fact, we opened the door.
All you could see was all these bodies in the shower.
There must have been 10 of them in there in the shower at the same time, which was more people in there than there were shower heads.
So I think there was.
Anyway, we came back to the room and he said, that sounds unusual that all these people would be taking showers at the same time.
It's such a hot shower.
And I was making this small talk.
My heart was just pounding, you know.
And he just kept me on the string.
And finally he said, I think they're still in there or something.
You know, after we've been talking for five or ten minutes.
And I said, well, no, they're probably dirty.
Anyway.
He finally just got up and he said, well, Lindsay, I'll see you later.
He walked down.
He decided not to do anything about it.
And he knew what had happened.
Somebody had told him.
I don't know who to him, but somebody had told him.
And I could have been gone.
I would have been expelled from school.
You could have been kicked out of school.
Oh, yeah.
I would have been kicked out for that.
By this time.
Not for when I was a freshman.
That was what was done, and nobody did anything about it, and there wasn't anybody that ever thought of changing that.
But by the time I became a junior, it was getting pretty well along that we were not to be using our boards on people, and we didn't.
It was extreme circumstances, but it was warranted.
Did the sophomores retaliate
did they play any trick on you?
No, no.
So they didn't?
No, they were just, they were really glad that nothing happened.
They were trying to cooperate with it too.
They knew they had done something wrong.
I mean, they knew that that had to happen.
I mean, there was nobody mad at me because they did it.
And this was just the way the thinking was at that time.
They were not mad at me.
I had some of my
good friends with those sophomores.
I really liked, there were three or four of them that were really good buddies of mine.
I liked them all night.
Do you remember any other tricks or pranks or good bull that you can share involving you or anybody else?
Well, yes, I remember you mentioned this one you told me about.
One I remember when my freshman year, we had a person in my outfit that
It didn't take a bath.
He smelled.
I don't know how far this is going to go.
If it's bad, you can mark it out on the time script.
This guy smelled.
It was just that he needed a bath.
We decided we would do something about it.
We had some engineers that
We got together and decided what we would do about it.
And it was absolutely unique.
This was not my idea, but I was right in the middle of it.
We had these basins.
Every room had a basin in it.
And the door didn't have that much room under our doors as it did over in the doors where you were talking about.
But there was, you know, some room.
Well, the plan was to loosen.
The basin had a little pipe came down and turned around like that and then went out.
And at the bottom of this pipe, there was a screw that you could take out and let the water out if it ever got stopped up.
The handles on the basin could also be taken off.
I mean, you could unscrew them.
turn on the water, take off the hands.
So we got all those loose.
We got this thing down there loose.
And one night when everybody went to bed, we got up late in the night and went in there quietly and took that bottom out, turned on the water.
Oh, you also have to take the
the handle off the door, which is very easy.
Those doors were real simple.
They had screws right there.
Everything was simple.
You just unscrew it.
So we took the bottom thing off, then took the handles, made them loose, turned on the water real quick, and two others were taking the handle off the door.
We slammed the door, put a towel under it, and the water is on.
And it's come down, and they can't turn it off.
And I don't know how long it took.
But that room, that filled up to the window.
And the victim is in the room?
And the victims are in the room.
Both of them.
But they're taking a bath by this time.
They were out of bed.
And the water is up to the window still, two or three feet to the top.
And I tell you, they finally...
Got that handle put back on the door that we had the handles off.
And the sophomores, I mean, it was a total mess.
It really was.
We never thought about what would happen when the door was finally open.
Because the water went over.
We were on the fourth floor.
Water went all down the stairs.
Well, we got our ass beat for that.
I mean, we really got it.
The whole outfit, the whole freshman outfit was playing for that.
And we were all that followed.
Alright, now did y'all use the term good bull for things like that then?
Was that an Aggie term then?
Yeah, yeah, that's good bull.
Alright, any others you remember?
That's the outstanding.
Alright, summarize a typical weekday
for a freshman in the Corps?
In your... Freshman weekday.
My day was a little different because we had to clean up a room for an upperclassman every day.
Every day.
Why?
Because that was part of our job.
Every morning I had to get up and go clean an upperclassman's room.
Did every freshman or was it just your outfit?
No, no, no.
Every freshman.
I was lucky enough
to have an upper classman who lived in another dormitory, number 12, which was pretty far away down the street.
And when it rained, my tough luck or when it was cold or whatever.
But anyway, I cleaned up Eddie Prowl's room.
P-R-O-W-E-L-L.
He's dead now, but he's a wonderful guy, a nice guy.
He was always nice to me, gave me presents, and appreciated it, but his room was filthy dirty every time, and he left turnoff.
All right, so now, so you got up at about what time in the morning?
Oh, it was early.
I don't... Before 6, before Revlon?
Oh, yeah.
We had to get up in time to go clean up that room and then we had to clean up our room.
And then we had to go march to breakfast.
And then go to class and I took eighteen hours of class.
Do you remember your first semester of classes?
They take 15 hours, you know.
Or some of them 12.
What did you take as a freshman?
Do you remember?
Engineering, which I did very, very, very poorly.
And I changed it midterm.
To what?
I had no idea what... What did you think you were going to do as an engineer?
A civil... No, it was an all basic engineering course.
It was no specialty at all.
And those were math, physics, what?
Yeah, math, physics, slide rules.
Do you remember that?
What kind?
Okay.
Slide rule.
You remember they had that engineering slide rule?
And where did you carry that?
Where did I carry it?
Yes.
Well, I carried it on the belt, yeah.
But, not for long.
I didn't do very well.
And so, you changed to?
Changed to majoring in economics.
Were there some faculty members?
of your four years there that you remember particularly as important to you?
Dr. Chalk, I remember very well.
Describe Al Chalk as a person, as a immigrant.
He was just a very, I thought, a very understanding.
He was kind of gruff at first, but actually he had a lot to him and he
He didn't run out of the room, but when the class was over he would stay there and you could talk to him.
I didn't find that out for a while, but I finally did.
It was my fault, not his.
But he was a good professor.
Did he have a nickname?
Yeah, was it?
I don't know.
What about some of the other faculty members that you remember?
Well of course I remember Dr. Harrington.
He taught chemistry.
Did he?
And we had a freshman chemistry.
Describe him as a chemistry teacher.
Well he was excellent.
He was really a wonderful person.
He never did really change much the whole time I knew him until he died.
I mean he looked the same.
He was always very positive.
Nice man.
Did he have a nickname?
No, I don't think so.
English?
Yeah, Mayo.
Mayo teaching it for him.
Dr. Mayo and Sam Gammon.
Gammon's history wasn't it.
Did he have a nickname?
Foster Joe Gammon.
But why was he called Oyster Joe?
Well he was spent up in his nature.
He'd take his ancient house and spit his ancient pocket.
Any others?
What about in business?
Did you take any business, business law, accounting?
Yeah, I took some accounting courses and I can't remember their names.
And of course the great social, real sociology teacher, what was his name, you remember?
Russell.